So let's talk about how we want
to pass user data to our EC2 instances using CloudFormation.
So we know that user data can be used as a script
for the first EC2 instance launch,
and then we can set up for the console,
but we can also do the same
through the CloudFormation template.
The one important thing you should do
is to pass your entire script
through a function named Base64.
And then, as we'll see very soon,
the user data script is also going to be stored in a file
named /var/log/cloud-init-output.log.
And we'll have a look at it
in case we want to have a look at what happened
and if there were any failures.
So let's go ahead and do this in CloudFormation.
So here I am in my file named O-user-data.yaml,
and we are creating an EC2 instance in a specified AZ
with a specified image ID, a t2.micro.
We reference a security group that we define right after,
which allows us to SSH and to use HTP.
And then, we're going to start a web server
on our EC2 instance.
For this, we start with the user data property
and we pass in the function Base64.
And then, we have this vertical line here,
which means that all of this is a multi-line string.
And this vertical line is saying that we passed
this entire script as our user data
in which we update and install HTTPD.
Then we start it and enable it.
And finally, we create a file named index.html.
So let's have a test and see if this script
actually gets passed to our EC2 instance.
So to do so, let's create a stack.
We upload a template file,
and we choose O-user-data.yaml.
Let's click on Next.
I will call this one DemoEC2UserData.
Click on Next.
Next.
And then, finally,
Submit to create this template.
And so we are getting started
and launching a security group first,
and then we'll be launching an EC2 instance.
So what I want to show you
is that we can go directly into the EC2 console
and wait for the instance to be running.
So now our EC2 instance is in the running state,
and I'm going to use the public IPv4 address to copy it
and open it in my web browser.
And I get a "Hello World from user data."
So my user data script here was passed to my EC2 instance
through CloudFormation.
Now I'm just going to connect to my EC2 instance
using EC2 Instance Connect.
And the reason why I'm doing so is that I wanna show you
how we can have a look at at the lugs of the clouds-init.
So you do cat /var/log/cloud-init
and then -output.log.
And this entire log gives you
all the commands you are running using your user data
and the outcome of it.
So as we can see here, we have the init info,
and here we have the first command we ran,
which has dnf update -y,
which created all this log.
Then we did dnf install -y http.
So we installed HTTPD.
As we can see everything was done and successful.
And then we had these two commands
to start and enable HTTPD.
And finally, we had this echo command
to actually create our index.html file.
And so everything was finished and was successful,
and it took 34 seconds,
and we had this content as a result
being ready on our web server.
So this is great,
and it turns out that our EC2 instance was created
and was successful in this template.
Even though if we had issues in this
and the web server was not deployed,
CloudFormation would return a success.
And so we'll see how we can link the success
of the user data script to the success of CloudFormation.
So let's delete the stack,
and I will see you in the next lecture
to discuss what I just introduced.